README.md, before:

#**Finding Lane Lines on the Road** 
<img src="laneLines_thirdPass.jpg" width="480" alt="Combined Image" />

When we drive, we use our eyes to decide where to go.  The lines on the road that show us where the lanes are act as our constant reference for where to steer the vehicle.  Naturally, one of the first things we would like to do in developing a self-driving car is to automatically detect lane lines using an algorithm.

In this project you will detect lane lines in images using Python and OpenCV.  OpenCV means "Open-Source Computer Vision", which is a package that has many useful tools for analyzing images.  

**Step 1:** Getting setup with Python

To do this project, you will need Python 3 along with the numpy, matplotlib, and OpenCV libraries, as well as Jupyter Notebook installed. 

We recommend downloading and installing the Anaconda Python 3 distribution from Continuum Analytics because it comes prepackaged with many of the Python dependencies you will need for this and future projects, makes it easy to install OpenCV, and includes Jupyter Notebook.  Beyond that, it is one of the most common Python distributions used in data analytics and machine learning, so a great choice if you're getting started in the field.

Choose the appropriate Python 3 Anaconda install package for your operating system <A HREF="https://www.continuum.io/downloads" target="_blank">here</A>.   Download and install the package.

If you already have Anaconda for Python 2 installed, you can create a separate environment for Python 3 and all the appropriate dependencies with the following command:

`>  conda create --name=yourNewEnvironment python=3 anaconda`

`>  source activate yourNewEnvironment`

**Step 2:** Installing OpenCV

Once you have Anaconda installed, first double check you are in your Python 3 environment:

`>python`    
`Python 3.5.2 |Anaconda 4.1.1 (x86_64)| (default, Jul  2 2016, 17:52:12)`  
`[GCC 4.2.1 Compatible Apple LLVM 4.2 (clang-425.0.28)] on darwin`  
`Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.`  
`>>>`   
(Ctrl-d to exit Python)

run the following commands at the terminal prompt to get OpenCV:

`> pip install pillow`  
`> conda install -c https://conda.anaconda.org/menpo opencv3`

then to test if OpenCV is installed correctly:

`> python`  
`>>> import cv2`  
`>>>`  
(Ctrl-d to exit Python)

**Step 3:** Installing moviepy  

We recommend the "moviepy" package for processing video in this project (though you're welcome to use other packages if you prefer).  

To install moviepy run:

`>pip install moviepy`  

and check that the install worked:

`>python`  
`>>>import moviepy`  
`>>>`  
(Ctrl-d to exit Python)

**Step 4:** Opening the code in a Jupyter Notebook

You will complete this project in a Jupyter notebook.  If you are unfamiliar with Jupyter Notebooks, check out <A HREF="https://www.packtpub.com/books/content/basics-jupyter-notebook-and-python" target="_blank">Cyrille Rossant's Basics of Jupyter Notebook and Python</A> to get started.

Jupyter is an ipython notebook where you can run blocks of code and see results interactively.  All the code for this project is contained in a Jupyter notebook. To start Jupyter in your browser, run the following command at the terminal prompt (be sure you're in your Python 3 environment!):

`> jupyter notebook`

A browser window will appear showing the contents of the current directory.  Click on the file called "P1.ipynb".  Another browser window will appear displaying the notebook.  Follow the instructions in the notebook to complete the project.

Commit message:

Add information about image processing steps
-Update README with additional steps
-Get rid of unnecessary video files

README.md, after:

#**Finding Lane Lines on the Road** 
<img src="laneLines_thirdPass.jpg" width="480" alt="Combined Image" />

## Overview ##
Given an image of a road, I identify the lane lines and draw them on in real-time videos. 

All made possible by Udacity's Self-driving Car Nanodegree.

Steps:
1. Detect the line segments in the image (canny edge detection) 
1. Crop the photo to just the part that may contain lane lines
1. Average/extrapolate the vertical lines (hough transformation)
1. Draw the lines onto the image for display.

## Files ##
1. P1.ipynb: contains all the image processing and output videos
1. white.mp4 and yellow.mp4 are the output videos after finding lane lines

## To get the code working for you ##
**Step 1:** Getting setup with Python

To do this project, you will need Python 3 along with the numpy, matplotlib, and OpenCV libraries, as well as Jupyter Notebook installed. 

`>  source activate yourNewEnvironment`

**Step 2:** Installing OpenCV

Once you have Anaconda installed, first double check you are in your Python 3 environment:

`>python`    
`Python 3.5.2 |Anaconda 4.1.1 (x86_64)| (default, Jul  2 2016, 17:52:12)`  
`[GCC 4.2.1 Compatible Apple LLVM 4.2 (clang-425.0.28)] on darwin`  
`Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.`  
`>>>`   
(Ctrl-d to exit Python)

run the following commands at the terminal prompt to get OpenCV:

`> pip install pillow`  
`> conda install -c https://conda.anaconda.org/menpo opencv3`

then to test if OpenCV is installed correctly:

`> python`  
`>>> import cv2`  
`>>>`  
(Ctrl-d to exit Python)

**Step 3:** Installing moviepy  
wxx
To install moviepy run:

`>pip install moviepy`  

and check that the install worked:

`>python`  
`>>>import moviepy`  
`>>>`  
(Ctrl-d to exit Python)

**Step 4:** Opening the code in a Jupyter Notebook

You will complete this project in a Jupyter notebook.  If you are unfamiliar with Jupyter Notebooks, check out <A HREF="https://www.packtpub.com/books/content/basics-jupyter-notebook-and-python" target="_blank">Cyrille Rossant's Basics of Jupyter Notebook and Python</A> to get started.

Jupyter is an ipython notebook where you can run blocks of code and see results interactively.  All the code for this project is contained in a Jupyter notebook. To start Jupyter in your browser, run the following command at the terminal prompt (be sure you're in your Python 3 environment!):

`> jupyter notebook`

A browser window will appear showing the contents of the current directory.  Click on the file called "P1.ipynb".  Another browser window will appear displaying the notebook.  Follow the instructions in the notebook to complete the project.
